# Is-money-omnipotent---Investigation-of-Canadian-Health-Care-Budget-s-Impact-on-Waiting-Time
Inez Rudderham, a 33 year-old woman from Nova Scotia, recently gained national attention. She unfolds her heart-breaking story that she went undiagnosed with stage three anal cancer for two years, because of her lack of access to a family doctor. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident. In 2018, Canada’s single-payer healthcare system has forced over a million patients to wait for essential medical treatments.  The average treatment waiting time in Canada is 21 weeks after referral from general practitioner.  A heart breaking revelation emerged after Fraser institute dug deeper into this matter, only to find that 72% of the morality cases due to such delays were actually preventable. Longer waiting time is a nationwide challenge for the Canadian Healthcare system. It is a growing concern and has significant impacts on Canadian people’s welfare. We truly believe this is a meaningful topic to investigate.   In this project, we will focus on the Canadian healthcare system. Specifically, the primary focus of our project is to investigate the relationship between the healthcare budget and waiting time.   It may seem trivial to assume the relationship is negative, but there are some other interesting questions we are trying to answer in this project. For example: How strong the correlation is? Is the relationship linear?  Is there a marginal diminishing effect for waiting time when more and more budgets are put into the system?   The ultimate goal of our project is to provide remedial suggestions for both public and private healthcare participants in Canada to shorten the waiting time for medical services, and hopefully to promote welfare for the whole society .
